docs/contribute/code.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Code
---
<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
-->

Samza's code is in an Apache Git repository located [here](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=samza.git;a=tree).

You can check out Samza's code by running:

```
git clone http://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/samza.git
```

Please see the [Rules](rules.html) page for information on how to contribute.

If you are a committer you need to use https instead of http to check in, otherwise you will get an error regarding an inability to acquire a lock. Note that older versions of git may also give this error even when the repo was cloned with https; if you experience this try a newer version of git.

The Samza website is built by Jekyll from the markdown files found in the docs subdirectory. For committers wishing to update the webpage, please see `docs/README.md` for instructions.

Commit message:

Adding doc for contributors page and fixing code in merge script

docs/contribute/code.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Code
---
<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
-->

Samza's code is in an Apache Git repository located [here](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=samza.git;a=tree).

You can check out Samza's code by running:

```
git clone http://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/samza.git
```

Official releases can be downloaded from [here](/startup/download)

Please see [Contributor's Corner'](rules.html) for information on how to contribute.
