docs/startup/hello-samza/0.7.0/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Hello Samza
---

<!-- TODO Make github project public when code is up. -->

The [hello-samza](http://github.com/linkedin/hello-samza) project is a stand-alone project designed to help you run your first Samza job.

### Get the Code

You'll need to check out and publish Samza, since it's not available in a Maven repository right now.

    git clone http://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator-samza.git
    cd incubator-samza
    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.8.1 clean publishToMavenLocal

Next, check out the hello-samza project.

    git clone git://github.com/linkedin/hello-samza.git

This project contains everything you'll need to run your first Samza jobs.

### Start a Grid

A Samza grid usually comprises three different systems: [YARN](http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-site/YARN.html), [Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org/), and [ZooKeeper](http://zookeeper.apache.org/). The hello-samza project comes with a script called "grid" to help you setup these systems. Start by running:

    bin/grid bootstrap

This command will download, install, and start ZooKeeper, Kafka, and YARN. All package files will be put in a sub-directory called "deploy" inside hello-samza's root folder.

If you get a complaint that JAVA_HOME is not set, then you'll need to set it. This can be done on Mac OSX by running:

```
export JAVA_HOME=$(/usr/libexec/java_home)
```

Once the grid command completes, you can verify that YARN is up and running by going to [http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088). This is the YARN UI.

### Build a Samza Job Package

Before you can run a Samza job, you need to build a package for it. This package is what YARN uses to deploy your jobs on the grid.

    mvn clean package
    mkdir -p deploy/samza
    tar -xvf ./samza-job-package/target/samza-job-package-0.7.0-dist.tar.gz -C deploy/samza

### Run a Samza Job

After you've built your Samza package, you can start a job on the grid using the run-job.sh script.

    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-feed.properties

The job will consume a feed of real-time edits from Wikipedia, and produce them to a Kafka topic called "wikipedia-raw". Give the job a minute to startup, and then tail the Kafka topic:

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-raw

Pretty neat, right? Now, check out the YARN UI again ([http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088)). This time around, you'll see your Samza job is running!

### Generate Wikipedia Statistics

Let's calculate some statistics based on the messages in the wikipedia-raw topic. Start two more jobs:

    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-parser.properties
    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-stats.properties

The first job (wikipedia-parser) parses the messages in wikipedia-raw, and extracts information about the size of the edit, who made the change, etc. You can take a look at its output with:

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-edits

The last job (wikipedia-stats) reads messages from the wikipedia-edits topic, and calculates counts, every ten seconds, for all edits that were made during that window. It outputs these counts to the wikipedia-stats topic.

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-stats

The messages in the stats topic look like this:

    {"is-talk":2,"bytes-added":5276,"edits":13,"unique-titles":13}
    {"is-bot-edit":1,"is-talk":3,"bytes-added":4211,"edits":30,"unique-titles":30,"is-unpatrolled":1,"is-new":2,"is-minor":7}
    {"bytes-added":3180,"edits":19,"unique-titles":19,"is-unpatrolled":1,"is-new":1,"is-minor":3}
    {"bytes-added":2218,"edits":18,"unique-titles":18,"is-unpatrolled":2,"is-new":2,"is-minor":3}

If you check the YARN UI, again, you'll see that all three jobs are now listed.

### Shutdown

After you're done, you can clean everything up using the same grid script.

    bin/grid stop all

Congratulations! You've now setup a local grid that includes YARN, Kafka, and ZooKeeper, and run a Samza job on it. Next up, check out the [Background](/learn/documentation/0.7.0/introduction/background.html) and [API Overview](/learn/documentation/0.7.0/api/overview.html) pages.

Commit message:

SAMZA-155; doc update to remove checkout in samza-hello-world since grid script does it automatically now.

docs/startup/hello-samza/0.7.0/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Hello Samza
---

The [hello-samza](http://github.com/linkedin/hello-samza) project is a stand-alone project designed to help you run your first Samza job.

### Get the Code

Check out the hello-samza project:

    git clone git://github.com/linkedin/hello-samza.git
    cd hello-samza

This project contains everything you'll need to run your first Samza jobs.

### Start a Grid

A Samza grid usually comprises three different systems: [YARN](http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-site/YARN.html), [Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org/), and [ZooKeeper](http://zookeeper.apache.org/). The hello-samza project comes with a script called "grid" to help you setup these systems. Start by running:

    bin/grid bootstrap

This command will download, install, and start ZooKeeper, Kafka, and YARN. It will also check out the latest version of Samza and build it. All package files will be put in a sub-directory called "deploy" inside hello-samza's root folder.

If you get a complaint that JAVA_HOME is not set, then you'll need to set it to the path where Java is installed on your system.

Once the grid command completes, you can verify that YARN is up and running by going to [http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088). This is the YARN UI.

### Build a Samza Job Package

Before you can run a Samza job, you need to build a package for it. This package is what YARN uses to deploy your jobs on the grid.

    mvn clean package
    mkdir -p deploy/samza
    tar -xvf ./samza-job-package/target/samza-job-package-0.7.0-dist.tar.gz -C deploy/samza

### Run a Samza Job

After you've built your Samza package, you can start a job on the grid using the run-job.sh script.

    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-feed.properties

The job will consume a feed of real-time edits from Wikipedia, and produce them to a Kafka topic called "wikipedia-raw". Give the job a minute to startup, and then tail the Kafka topic:

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-raw

Pretty neat, right? Now, check out the YARN UI again ([http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088)). This time around, you'll see your Samza job is running!

### Generate Wikipedia Statistics

Let's calculate some statistics based on the messages in the wikipedia-raw topic. Start two more jobs:

    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-parser.properties
    deploy/samza/bin/run-job.sh --config-factory=org.apache.samza.config.factories.PropertiesConfigFactory --config-path=file://$PWD/deploy/samza/config/wikipedia-stats.properties

The first job (wikipedia-parser) parses the messages in wikipedia-raw, and extracts information about the size of the edit, who made the change, etc. You can take a look at its output with:

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-edits

The last job (wikipedia-stats) reads messages from the wikipedia-edits topic, and calculates counts, every ten seconds, for all edits that were made during that window. It outputs these counts to the wikipedia-stats topic.

    deploy/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --zookeeper localhost:2181 --topic wikipedia-stats

The messages in the stats topic look like this:

    {"is-talk":2,"bytes-added":5276,"edits":13,"unique-titles":13}
    {"is-bot-edit":1,"is-talk":3,"bytes-added":4211,"edits":30,"unique-titles":30,"is-unpatrolled":1,"is-new":2,"is-minor":7}
    {"bytes-added":3180,"edits":19,"unique-titles":19,"is-unpatrolled":1,"is-new":1,"is-minor":3}
    {"bytes-added":2218,"edits":18,"unique-titles":18,"is-unpatrolled":2,"is-new":2,"is-minor":3}

If you check the YARN UI, again, you'll see that all three jobs are now listed.

### Shutdown

After you're done, you can clean everything up using the same grid script.

    bin/grid stop all

Congratulations! You've now setup a local grid that includes YARN, Kafka, and ZooKeeper, and run a Samza job on it. Next up, check out the [Background](/learn/documentation/0.7.0/introduction/background.html) and [API Overview](/learn/documentation/0.7.0/api/overview.html) pages.
