---
version: '1.0'
order: 100
layout: page
menu_title: '1.0'
title: Apache Samza 1.0 <a href="/learn/documentation/1.0.0/">      [Docs] </a> 
---
<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
-->


We're thrilled to announce to the release of Apache Samza 1.0.

Today Samza forms the backbone of hundreds of real-time production
applications across a multitude of companies, such as LinkedIn, VMWare,
Slack, Redfin among many others. This release of Samza adds a variety of
features and capabilities to Samza's existing arsenal, coupled with new
and improved *documentation*, *code* snippets, *examples*, and a
brand-new *website design*!
Here are a few selected highlights:

-   **Stable** high level APIs that allow creating complex processing
    pipelines with ease.

-   **Beam Samza Runner** now marries Beam's best in class support for
    EventTime based windowed processing and sophisticated triggering
    with Samza's stable and scalable stateful processing model.

-   **Table API** that provides a common abstraction for accessing
    remote or local databases. Developers are now able to "join" an
    input event stream with such a Table.

-   Integration **Test Framework** to enable effortless testing of Samza
    jobs without deploying a Kafka, Yarn, or Zookeeper cluster.

-   Support for **Apache Log4j2** allowing improved logging performance,
    customization, and efficiency.

-   **Upgraded Kafka** client and consumer.

-   An interactive **shell for Samza SQL** for seamless formulation,
    development, and testing of SamzaSQL queries.

-   **Side-input** support that allows using log-compacted data sources
    to populate KV state for Samza applications.

-   **An improved website** with detailed documentation and lots of code
    samples!

In addition, Samza 1.0 brings numerous bug-fixes, upgrades, and
improvements listed [below](#jiralist).

## New features

Samza 1.0 brings full-feature support for the following:

### Improved Stable High Level APIs

Samza 1.0 brings *Descriptor APIs* that allows applications to specify
their input and output *systems* and *streams* in code. Samza's new
*Context APIs* provide applications unified access to job-level,
container-level, task-level, and application-level context and
capabilities. This also simplifies Samza's *ApplicationRunner*
interface.

This API evolution requires a few simple modifications to application
code, which we describe in detail in our [upgrade steps](#upgradesteps)

#### Beam Runner Support

Samza's [Beam Runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/samza/) 
enables executing Apache Beam pipelines over Samza. This
enables Samza applications to create complex processing pipelines that
require event-time based processing, varying types of event-time based
windowing, and more. This feature is supported in both the YARN and
standalone deployment models.

#### Joining Streams and Tables 
Samza's Table API provides developers with unified access to local
and remote data sources such as *Key-Value stores* or *web services*,
while providing features such as *rate-limiting, throttling,* and
*caching* capabilities. This provides first-class API primitives for
building Stream-Table join jobs. Learn more about the use, semantics,
and examples for Table API [here](/learn/documentation/1.0.0/api/table-api.html).

#### Test Samza without *ZK, Yarn* or *Kafka*

Samza 1.0 brings a test framework that allows testing Samza applications
using *in-memory* input and output. Users can now setup test and
testing pipelines for their applications without needing to setup any
other services, such as Kafka, YARN, or Zookeeper.

#### Log4J2 support

Samza now supports Apache Log4j 2 for system and application logging.
Log4j 2 is an upgrade to Log4j that provides significant improvements
over its predecessor, Log4j 1.x, such as better throughput and latency,
custom log levels, and a pluggable logging architecture.

#### Kafka upgrade

This release upgrades Samza to use Kafka's high-level consumer (Kafka
v0.11.1.62). This brings latency and throughput benefits for Samza
applications that consume from Kafka, in addition to bug-fixes. This
also means Samza applications can now better their utilization of the
underlying Kafka cluster.

#### SamzaSQL Shell

SamzaSQL now provides a shell for users to type-in their SQL queries,
while Samza does the heavy-lifting of wiring the inputs and outputs, and
sizing the application in the background. This is great for testing and
experimenting with queries while formulating your application-logic,
specially suited for data-scientists and tinkerers.

#### Side-inputs

Samza 1.0 brings the ability to leverage existing log-compacted data
sources (e.g., Kafka topics) to populate KV state for Samza
applications. If your data processing pipeline involves Hadoop-to-Kafka
push, this feature alleviates the need for your Samza job to create
separate Kafka-topics to back KV state.

#### Improved website, documentation, and samples

We've re-designed the Samza website making it easier to find details on
key Samza concepts and patterns. All documentation has been revised and
rewritten, keeping in mind the feedback we got from our customers. We've
revised and added sample application code to showcase Samza 1.0 and the
use of its new APIs.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------------------->
## <a name="jiralist"></a> Enhancements and Upgrades

This release brings the following enhancements, upgrades, and
capabilities:

##### New and improved documentation, code snippets, and examples

###  API enhancements and simplifications
 

SAMZA-1789: unify ApplicationDescriptor and ApplicationRunner for high-
and low-level APIs in YARN and standalone environment

SAMZA-1804: System and stream descriptors

SAMZA-1858: Public APIs for shared context

SAMZA-1763: Add async methods to Table API

SAMZA-1786: Introduce the metadata store abstraction

SAMZA-1859: Zookeeper implementation of MetadataStore

SAMZA-1788: Add the LocationIdProvider abstraction

###  Upgrades and Bug-fixes
SAMZA-1768: Handle corrupted OFFSET file

SAMZA-1817: Long classpath support for non-split deployments
SAMZA-1719: Add caching support to table-API

SAMZA-1783: Add Log4j2 functionality in Samza

SAMZA-1868: Refactor KafkaSystemAdmin from using SimpleConsumer

SAMZA-1776: Refactor KafkaSystemConsumer to remove the usage of
deprecated SimpleConsumer client

SAMZA-1730: Adding state validation in StreamProcessor before any
lifecycle operation and group coordination

SAMZA-1695: Clear events in ScheduleAfterDebounceTime on session
expiration

SAMZA-1647: Fix race conditions in StreamProcessor

SAMZA-1371: Some Samza Containers get stuck at "Starting BrokerProxy"

**Performance and Testing**

SAMZA-1648: Integration Test Framework & Collection Stream Impl

SAMZA-1748: Failure tests in the standalone deployment

A source download of Samza 1.0 is available [here](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/samza/1.0.0), and is
also available in Apache's Maven repository. 

**Community Developments**
A [symposium](https://www.meetup.com/Stream-Processing-Meetup-LinkedIn/events/251481797)
on Stream processing with Apache Samza and Apache Kafka was held on July
19th and on October 23rd. Both were attended by more than 350
participants from across the industry. It featured in-depth talks on
Samza's Beam integration, its use at LinkedIn for real-time
notifications, a talk on Kafka-replication at Uber, and Kafka cruise
control, and many others.

Samza was also the focus of a talk at [Strange Loop'18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2y8QImf-RpI),
focussing in depth on its scalability, performance, extensibility, and
programmability.

## <a name="upgradesteps"></a> Upgrading your application to Apache Samza 1.0 

Congratulations on your decision to upgrade to Samza 1.0!

First, please follow the upgrade steps depending on if you've been using the
low-level (i.e., Task) API or the high-level (i.e., the fluent) Samza API.

### Overview of New APIs 

Instead of configuration, input and output systems are now defined using
*SystemDescriptors.* Each SystemDescriptor encapsulates the vagaries of
a particular type of system, e.g., Kafka, EventHub, Brooklin, etc. These
system descriptors are then used to get *StreamDescriptors* for input
and output streams.

Applications access all Context-based objects, such as Stores,
Configuration, MetricsRegistry, Tables, TaskModel, CallbackScheduler,
etc, via a unified Context-API.

**Upgrade Steps for Low-level API Applications**

1.  Update your application to use Samza version 1.0.0.

2.  Samza 1.0's Context API necessitates some minimal changes to the init method
    of your Task class (the one that implements the **StreamTask**
    interface). 
    
    The signature of the init method now has a single Context argument.
    
    So, to obtain the, TaskModel and details (e.g., TaskName) in your task's init, 
    use context.getTaskContext().getTaskModel()
    
    For the MetricsRegistry for the task, use context.getTaskContext().getTaskMetricsRegistry()
    
    For the  Application's configuration, use context.getJobContext().getConfig()

    For KV stores, use context.getTaskContext().getStore(storeName)
    
    For Table objects, use context.getTaskContext().getTable(tableId)

    For scheduling a timer-callback from your task, use context.getTaskContext().
    getCallbackScheduler().scheduleCallback(key, timestamp, callback).

    For the ContainerModel, use context.getContainerContext().getContainerModel()

    For the MetricsRegistry for the container, use context.getContainerContext().getContainerMetricsRegistry()

3.  In Samza 1.0, a Samza application's input, output, and
    processing-task should be specified in code, rather than in
    config. To do that, create a class (say MySamzaTaskApplication)
    that implements the **TaskApplication** interface. In the
    **describe()** method of this class do the following:
    
    a. For each system your job inputs or outputs to (e.g., Kafka), define a **SystemDescriptor.**

      For example, for Kafka,
      
      ```
      KafkaSystemDescriptor kafkaSystemDescriptor = new KafkaSystemDescriptor("kafka");
      ```
      
      Similarly, for other systems such as EventHub, use 
      
      ```
      EventHubsSystemDescriptor eventHubsSystemDescriptor = new EventHubsSystemDescriptor("eventhub")
      ```

      For HDFS use a GenericSystemDescriptor,
      
      ```
      GenericSystemDescriptor hdfsDescriptor = new GenericSystemDescriptor("hdfs", "org.apache.samza.system.hdfs.HdfsSystemFactory");
      ```

    You may choose to use config variables for the system-names and the system-factories. 
    
    b. *For each input* of your job, create an input descriptor,

    For example, for Kafka input,

    ```
    KafkaInputDescriptor<KV<String, PageViewEvent>> inputDescriptor = kafkaSystemDescriptor.getInputDescriptor("streamID", new JsonSerde<>());
    ```

    For EventHubs input,
    
    ```
    EventHubsInputDescriptor eventHubsInputDescriptor = eventHubsSystemDescriptor.getInputDescriptor("streamID", "namespace", "entityPath", new MyFavouriteSerde());
    ```

    For other input types simply use a GenericInputDescriptor, see samza-hello-world for examples for details on usage.

    c. *For each output* of your job, create an output descriptor,

    For example, for Kafka output,
    
    ```
    KafkaOutputDescriptor kafkaOutputDescriptor = kafkaSystemDescriptor.getOutputDescriptor("streamID", new JsonSerde<>());
    ```
 
    For EventHub output,

    ```
    EventHubsOutputDescriptor eventHubsOutputDescriptor = eventHubsSystemDescriptor.getOutputDescriptor("streamID", "namespace", "entityPath", new MyFavouriteSerde());
    ```

    For other output types simply use a GenericInputDescriptor, see
    samza-hello-world for examples and details on usage.

    d. Add the input and output descriptors by,

    ```
    appDesc.withInputStream(inputDescriptor);
    appDesc.withOutputStream(outputDescriptor);
    ```

    e. Set the Task factory and point it to your pre-existing Task class.
    
    ```
    appDesc.withTaskFactory((StreamTaskFactory) () = new MyExistingSamzaTask());
    ```

4. In your application's config *set the following config* to point to the
     TaskApplication class implemented above:
     
    ``` 
    <property name="app.class" value="class-path-to-TaskApplication-class">
    ```

    Note that this config is called **app.class** and **not** task.class.

5.  In your application's config set the following *task.systems* config. This
    config should be a union of all input and output systems used by
    your application.

    For example, an application that reads or writes from *kafka*, 
    *wikipedia* should use:
  
    ```
    <property name="task.systems" value="kafka, wikipedia"/>
    ```
    Note that, the system names used here *should* **match the system names** used when creating the *SystemDescriptor* above in 3.a.

6.  *Remove* the *task.class* and *task.inputs* configs from your job's configuration. These configs are *not needed* in Samza 1.0.

**Upgrade Steps for** **High-level API** **Applications**

1.  Update your application to use samza version 1.0.0.

2.  In Samza 1.0, a Samza application's input, output, and
    processing-task is specified in code, rather than in config. So to
    do that, update your **StreamApplication** class:

    a.  *For each system* your job inputs or outputs to, define a **SystemDescriptor**,
    For each system your job inputs or outputs to (e.g., Kafka), define a **SystemDescriptor.**
    
    For example, for Kafka,
    
    ```
    KafkaSystemDescriptor kafkaSystemDescriptor = new KafkaSystemDescriptor("kafka");
    ```
    
    Similarly, for other systems such as EventHub, use 
    
    ```
    EventHubsSystemDescriptor eventHubsSystemDescriptor = new EventHubsSystemDescriptor("eventhub")
    ```

    For HDFS use a GenericSystemDescriptor,
    
    ```
    GenericSystemDescriptor hdfsDescriptor = new GenericSystemDescriptor("hdfs", "org.apache.samza.system.hdfs.HdfsSystemFactory");
    ```
    You may choose to use config variables for the system-names and the system-factories. 

    b.  *For each input* of your job, define an input descriptor,
    For example, for Kafka input,

    ```
    KafkaInputDescriptor<KV<String, PageViewEvent>> inputDescriptor = kafkaSystemDescriptor.getInputDescriptor("streamID", new JsonSerde<>());
    ```

    For EventHubs input,
    
    ```
    EventHubsInputDescriptor eventHubsInputDescriptor = eventHubsSystemDescriptor.getInputDescriptor("streamID", "namespace", "entityPath", new MyFavouriteSerde());
    ```

    For other input types simply use a GenericInputDescriptor, see samza-hello-world for examples for details on usage.
 
    c.  *For each output* of your job, define an output descriptor,

    For example, for Kafka output,
    
    ```
    KafkaOutputDescriptor kafkaOutputDescriptor = kafkaSystemDescriptor.getOutputDescriptor("streamID", new JsonSerde<>());
    ```
 
    For EventHub output,

    ```
    EventHubsOutputDescriptor eventHubsOutputDescriptor = eventHubsSystemDescriptor.getOutputDescriptor("streamID", "namespace", "entityPath", new MyFavouriteSerde());
    ```

    For other output types simply use a GenericInputDescriptor, see
    samza-hello-world for examples and details on usage.

    d.  Obtain the input and output stream objects by using the input and output descriptors,

    For example,
    
    ```
    MessageStream<PageViewEvent> inputStream = appDesc.getInputStream(pageViewInputDescriptor)
    ```
    
    Or,
    
     
    ```
    MessageStream<GenericRecord> outputStream = appDesc.getOutputStream(outputDescriptor)
    ```
    
    The type of the MessageStream will depend on the type used in the respective input or output descriptor.

    e.  Update your fluent expressions to use the input and output streams from d.

3.  In Samza 1.0, the framework creates a computation graph of each
    application, based on the application's fluent API logic.
    Therefore, all *operators* and *user-defined functions (UDFs)*
    used in an app's *describe()* method need to be specified in
    static classes and methods.

4.  Add *task.systems* to your application configuration. This
    config should be a union of all input and output systems used by
    your application.

    For example, an application that reads or writes from *kafka*, 
    *wikipedia* should use:
  
    ```
    <property name="task.systems" value="kafka, wikipedia"/>
    ```
    Note that, the system names used here *should* **match the system names** 
    used when creating the *SystemDescriptor* above in 2.
    
5.  *Remove* the *task.inputs* configs from your job's configuration.
    These configs are *not needed* in Samza 1.0.

6.  If you are implementing InitableFunction, then you will need to
    make a change, since it now only has a single Context argument.

    a.  Samza 1.0's context API necessitates some minimal changes to the init method.  
        The signature of the init method now has a single Context argument.
        
       So, to obtain the, TaskModel and details (e.g., TaskName) in your task's init, 
       use context.getTaskContext().getTaskModel()
        
       For the MetricsRegistry for the task, use context.getTaskContext().getTaskMetricsRegistry()
        
       For the  Application's configuration, use context.getJobContext().getConfig()
    
       For KV stores, use context.getTaskContext().getStore(storeName)
        
       For Table objects, use context.getTaskContext().getTable(tableId)
    
       For scheduling a timer-callback from your task, use context.getTaskContext().
       getCallbackScheduler().scheduleCallback(key, timestamp, callback).
    
       For the ContainerModel, use context.getContainerContext().getContainerModel()
    
       For the MetricsRegistry for the container, use context.getContainerContext().getContainerMetricsRegistry()

    b.  If you are using ContextManager, then you will need to use
        ApplicationContainerContextFactory and/or
        ApplicationTaskContextFactory instead. You can access your
        application-defined context(s) in InitiableFunction.init
        through the Context\#getApplicationContainerContext and/or
        Context\#getApplicationTaskContext.
        
        

**Upgrade Steps for Samza SQL**

No changes are required for upgrading your application Samza 1.0.
